# Monte Carlo Glauber Simulator

This program has the objective of simulate the particle generated by
colliding nuclei.

We will be using the [ROOT Framework](https://root.cern/)
to generate the data, it can be executed in a lot of different ways, but
we'll focus on the following flags:

* __-l:__ Do not show the ROOT banner when it starts up;
* __-b:__ Run the macro in batch mode without creating windows;
* __-q:__ Exit ROOT after processing command line macro files;
* __-t:__ Enable thread-safety and implicit multi-threading (IMT).

As for the program itself, the files are:

# Collide

This is the main file, responsible for generating the data
of the collision itself. You are advised run command with:

    root -l -q -t 'collide.cpp(\"filename\", int nucleons, int simulations)'

## Arguments received

* __Filename:__ Receive the folder and file that you want to save the
  collision data, the default value is "./data.txt";

* __Nucleons:__ Specify the numbers of nucleons in the nuclei that you
  want to simulate, the default value is 208, as in a lead nucleus;

* __Simulations:__ Specify the numbers of simulations that you wish to
  run, the default value is 1*10^6.

***

## Generated data

The data passed to the defined file is going to be human-readable and saved in
a columnar style. Each line will have 3 values separated by a space character
(" "). The values are:
* __Participants:__ The number of single nucleons that participated of at least
  one collision;
* __Colision number:__ The number of collisions between two necleons;
* __Nuclei distance:__  The distance in fm between the two nuclei.

***

# CollisionsDraw

The file will generate a visual representation of the collisions, it can be run with:

    root -l -b -q 'collisionsDraw.cpp(\"location\", int nucleons, int simulations)'

## Arguments received

* __Location:__ Receive the folder that you want to save the
  collision data, the default value is "./simulations";

* __Nucleons:__ Specify the numbers of nucleons in the nuclei that you
  want to simulate, the default value is 208, as in a lead nucleus;

* __Simulations:__ Specify the numbers of simulations that you wish to
  graph, the default value is 20.

***


# Process

This file will generate graphs to visualize the generated data by
[the colide program](#Collide):

    root -l -b -q 'process.cpp(\"datafile\", \"location\")'

## Arguments received

* __Datafile:__ Receive the folder that the data file is
, the default value is "./data.txt";

* __Location:__ Receive the folder that you want to save the
  collision data, the default value is "./graphs";

***


*  __OBS:__ If you want to run the macros directly, you
WILL need to put backslashes when sending sstrings.